# A-Similarity-Based-Artwork-Recommender-System

A Python application that implements a recommender system based on text processing. Users are able to select from a collection of artworks one that they like and the system suggests other relevant artworks that might interest them. Each artwork has a description in natural language that contains the theme, objects in the picture, predominant colors etc. Using text processing techniques such as the Latent Dirichlet Allocation, artworks get associated with a number of topics, and based on the similarity between them, the user is provided with paintings with similar content. When using the SBERT embedding technique, the similarity value will be computed between the embeddings of the topics. The user can interact with the application through a friendly Python user interface developed with Tkinter.

The recommender jointly uses text processing (i.e. a method of automating the creation and editing of electronic text, representing one of the most common machine learning applications) and natural language processing (i.e., an area of linguistics, computer science, and artificial intelligence that focuses on how computers and human language interact, especially with regard to how to teach computers to process and analyze text and spoken words similarly to a human). It is based on Latent Dirichlet Allocation, a statistical model that categorizes a document as having multiple topics, each topic being a set of commonly used words from the analyzed text, as well as SBERT embeddings.

This project has been made as the Bachelor Semester Project (semester 2), in the Bachelor of Computer Science at University of Luxembourg, by student Antonia Cuba, under the supervision of academic tutor Dr. Giacomo di Tollo.
